Hi and welcome to
BlueprintImplementableEvent! What we're going to do in this video is make one of these things,
a BlueprintImplementableEvent, and it's going to allow us to create an
event in Blueprint that tells Blueprint when to create the UI
for the crosshair, once the AimingComponent has been found. We'll also talk slightly more
widely about the architecture of the project. So I'll see you in there!
What we want to do is have an event, not BeginPlay() but another event of our own called
FoundAimingComponent, and that is going to also
pass out a variable, which is going to be the AimingComponent, and then, that's going to trigger the creation of
the UI and the setting of the Blueprint Reference. Let's summarize that!
We want to expose a C++ function to Blueprint. We also want to pass
out a parameter into Blueprint, the AimingComponent Reference.
Multicast delegates only work for actors, so we've used
multicast delegates for this before, in Building Escape, but they only work for actors.
They don't work for components like this, we're not going to be able to expose them to Blueprint how we want. So
as we're using a component, we're going to use a UFUNCTION called (Blueprint
ImplementableEvent). It's actually somewhat
easier to use, and strangely, you don't even need to define the function in question. Let's
look at this and see how it works! So I'll do the C++ with you, and then, you can
go ahead and do the wiring up in Blueprint. So let's start
at... Well let's start at the top of the class actually! Look our copyright notice isn't filled out, so let's just
do that. Whenever I touch a class now I want to clean it up, so I want to fill
out my copyright notice. I'm going to write what this class is about, " * Responsible
for helping the player
aim." There's a bit of a question mark over whether this is
all that the TankPlayerController does but let's worry about that later. As long as we put something, we can
read it and critique it later. Let's get down to the meat and veggies of this bit, which is
in protected. Why protected? Because the place we're going to use this event
is in a Blueprint, that is a subclass of the TankPlayerController. Indeed
you can click Tank Player Controller to go straight back to it, so it's protected. Now it's UFUNCTION
oh dear...
OK and then it's (Blueprint), now spell it carefully.
ImplementableEvent. I think that's
correct. I'm going to say the Category, and we're always going to use a category now,
just to reinforce the habit = "Setup").
OK, so that's the annotation! Then what we're going to have is a method called something like,
or it's going to be a void nothing needs to come back. FoundAiming
Component and it's going to pass out
a (UTankAiming
Component* pointer called Aiming
CompRef);
OK, so that's fine! It's a bit weird that this
thing is going to be an event that comes out in Blueprint and yet it's a parameter,
but this is just the way we define it. Now we've used UTankTankAimingComponent pointer. Whether or not that
works, it may even work because of the niceties of this macro, we want to do a
forward declaration. As soon as you start using a type in a header file, you need to put a forward declaration
in, and yeah, that should be it. Let's
make sure that we can compile this. Now you might say, how will
this compile when there is no implementation of this found AimingComponent
method. We actually don't need to implement it with this macro
in place. So let's see if it compiles! We've got a problem in the compilation.
Unrecognized Tank type UTankTankAimingComponent. That's
why. So let's try it again! Now
by the way, while that's compiling, if you want to know what happens to your code
after the Header Tool gets to it, you can look if you
want, it'll scare you, but you can look at the generated files. So you'll find TankAiming
Component... Are we on that? No TankPlayerController
.generated.h, and that will show you what your
file looks like, just before it gets compiled, after the Unreal Header Tool and the macros have
been expanded. So I wouldn't bother, but it's there if you want to wonder
about how that works. Now has this compiled?! Yes it has compiled, the game still plays!
That's very strange right, because we have not implemented this FoundAimingComponent.
Oh well! OK, so let's go over to the blueprint
and let's go and find it. Look Event Found
Aiming Component. There it is, and it's passing out the Aiming Component reference. That
is cool! OK, good good! Now before I hand it over to you, we need
to go to the TankPlayerController.cpp file, and we actually need
to, at some point, broadcast on this event. Now the way you do that is not with
the broadcast key word, it's a little bit different. What you do is you just call FoundAimingComponent
with the (AimingComponent)
and that's it. What we should do later is put, well...
Actually we better do it now, get some protection around it yeah, and also [laughs] we need to find the
(AimingComponent). So let's go find this AimingComponent! This is a slightly different piece of work for you.
Auto aiming Component. Now the way we can find it, we actually don't
need, in the future, to keep an AimingComponent pointer here on the tank,
and you'll see why, because what we can do is Unreal provides this functionality for us.
We can say auto AimingComponent = GetControlledTank(),
and then we can look through the ControlledTank and say, FindComponent
ByClass UTank
AimingComponent, in a generics format like that.
Now what that's going is very much what we did here. Get Controlled Tank, Get Components by
Class. In Blueprint returns an array and we get the first one. Over here in C++,
it's exactly the same thing, but it returns a single component, not components;
in this case, we assume that we have one. Then, we can say if
we have an (AimingComponent)... Not auto component! [Laughs] Look at me. If
we have an (AimingComponent), then, in fact,
with my version of VisualStudio I can do that, which is highlight the line and hit the
left chevron or left curly brace. Otherwise, what do you
do if you don't have an AimingComponent? Well I think we should log something out. By the BeginPlay(),
we really should have an AimingComponent, because of what we talked about before
in the previous lecture here. The Tank's
constructor and it's AimingComponent's constructor should already have run in the constructors.
So by the time we get over here, into the PlayerController
blueprint on BeginPlay(), we should already have this Aiming
Component added to the Tank, and if we find it this way by finding ComponentByClass it should be there.
If it's not there, then we probably want to log out a warning that says
something like ("Player controller can't
find aiming component at the Begin
Play")), something like that. Alright, so that's the code I've written
there! Now I've misspelled GetControlledTank,
otherwise I think it looks OK. Yep, so that's the new code, is what I've
highlighted. Let's see if it'll compile! Go back to the code, while it's compiling,
so you can see what's going on. Hopefully you can see what we're doing there. We're finding the AimingComponent
a different way from the PlayerController, we're looking through the tank to the AimingComponent,
and this could be a better architecture, looking forward, for the AimingComponent and the MovementComponent.
Perhaps the tank itself needs to do almost nothing and we just look through it as a
placeholder object, that would be a pure component based architecture.
So that reload, that compile has failed,
in the .cpp line 11.
Let's read the error message,
template OK. So the class that I'm specifying must be a... OK
I see what's going on. So I've used UTankAimingComponent there, but it
doesn't know anything about that, so we need to #include
the "TankAimingComponent.h".
It's a bit of an obscure message
for the fact that I haven't included the TankAimingComponent but that's the sort of stuff you're
going to get out of the Unreal compiler. So just kind of repass the message, if you
can, and think, well what could be going wrong here. OK, so
the compile is complete and we can play and it works! OK fantastic! So what
I want you to do now is to re-wire this blueprint, to make sure you've understood what we've done. So let's get
through to that, go to the TankPlayerController blueprint,
use the event to trigger the UI Creation. So instead of the BeginPlay(), we're going to use the event
we just made. Also use the passed reference to set that blueprint variable, on the right-hand
side of the blueprint, and test that the crosshair color now tracks the
Enum state, that was set in the declaration of the Enum. OK and
you might want to change it and recompile just to check. So go ahead, pause the video, and see if that's all
working now.
Okey dokey welcome back! So we don't need the BeginPlay event. We don't need any of this code up here,
this is exactly the sort of thing we don't want to be seeing in Blueprint, only very basic asset
referencing and UI component creation. So
now we've got something along these lines. I'm going to get rid of the Details tab. Zoom in so you can see what's going on
a little bit. Great, so we have this AimingComponent. What
we want to do, once we find that, is
we want to trigger the UI creation, so actually I do need it to be on the left-hand side.
So now, when the AimingComponent is found on BeginPlay, we create
the UI, and then, we pass the Aiming Component reference over here to this
blueprint variable. There's not really any way to make this perfectly neat,
so I think I'll just leave it like that, it's pretty clear what's going on.
We create the Blueprint Widget, add it to the viewport,
we have to pass a reference. But we're also going to need a reference to this widget, so that we
know the target of this Blueprint Aiming Component reference, so that
when we get over here into the blueprint, Player UI blueprint,
this Aiming Component reference is set. OK, let's compile
this guy up! Play the game, it's green
now. OK, now let's check that's right! So green would be an Enum value of
Locked. Let's go and look at the place that this is initialized, which is in the TankAimingComponent
header file. Locked, that's great! And you could change that and convince yourself
that if you change the default firing state, that the UI now reflects it. Now this
is a much much nicer architecture we've got ourselves here, and we're ready
to make the UI state change in the AimingComponent. The only thing is, I
would say right now is that the aiming is not happening. So
we have sorted out our UI, what we need to think about next is
how are we going to get an AimingComponent reference
working inside the Tank. Remember we still, in the Tank.cpp constructor,
we remove the default sub-object, we added
the AimingComponent to the tank in Blueprint here, and yet the
tank still doesn't have a concept of its AimingComponent. So we're going to turn this
architecture inside out, actually, and we're going to remove the
AimingComponent references from the Tank and make things work a different
way, so that you're going to talk direct to the component. It's going to be another way of
doing things. I want you to see it this way, because you'll see this way done, and you may choose to do things this way,
but I also want to show you another way. This part of the project really puts pressure on
our architecture, so I hope you'll excuse me taking you down this route. It's quite important
that you see these ways of adjusting and inverting your architecture and inverting your dependancies.
I already have a prototype that's running for this game, I posted that to Facebook months ago
or weeks ago, but I do not want to give you a completely sterile journey,
because if I do that when you get yourself stuck architecturally you're not
going to have the experience to pull yourself out of it. So let's look froward to
continuing to refactor and improve our architecture and look at the consequences of doing
that. So I'll see you in the next video!